hello
mr rashid hi how are you fine thank you
how was your vacation it was wonderful
i'm so happy to hear that
was your flight okay no pretty bad
actually it was so bumpy it was very
scary
that's too bad did you have nice weather
after you arrived
no the weather was terrible very rainy i
actually never saw the sun
that's awful so what did you do
i stayed inside the hotel was the hotel
room nice
the room was fine but it was right next
to the cafe
and the music was very loud i didn't
sleep much
i'll bet the food was great no it was
too salty for me and the waiters were
very unfriendly
did you go shopping at all a little bit
until someone stole my wallet
after that i stayed in the hotel and
read the book
was the flight home okay actually they
cancelled my flight
i had to stay for two more days that's
terrible but mr rasheed
you said that your vacation was
wonderful yes i did
and it was wonderful i met a very nice
person a woman
actually her name is basmar she's from
lebanon just like me
but she lives here i'm seeing her
tonight so yes
it was a wonderful vacation that's great
mr rasheed
[Music]
yes mr rasheed welcome back
come tell me about your vacation
what a terrible vacation mr rashid had
oh you know
on my vacation last year someone stole
my car
that was a horrible vacation i
went on a cruise and there was an
outbreak of illness
i was in my room for a week that was a
really bad vacation
i went to disney world and someone stole
my map
that's your worst vacation it took 10
minutes to get another map
all right what was your favorite
vacation
i spent two weeks in the caribbean last
year
diving snorkeling and swimming with
dolphins
it was amazing i went to china a few
years ago
it was incredible the people there were
so friendly
and everyone wanted to practice their
english with me
i went to the beach and ate shrimp
that's your best vacation i really like
shrimp
you need to go on more exciting
vacations i don't like exciting
vacations
in fact i don't like to travel very much
then
why do you work in a travel agency it's
across the street from my apartment
so i don't have to travel far to go to
work
that is so cute thank you
i love that color
bob what do you think of our new clothes
for the party tomorrow there's a party
tomorrow
it's mr evans birthday remember
all right am i going
yes you are okay
so tell us what you think of our new
clothes
all those clothes are for one party no
we have to decide what to wear
what do you think of these blouses
they're very flattering
which one do you like more
what do you mean which one do you prefer
i like them both the same
no you don't you're just saying that
you need to have an opinion you have to
choose no no no
i'm not doing that bob
please help us decide what to wear
okay
which skirt do you like
the red one great
that's not so hard is it
[Applause]
which shoes look better
those
[Music]
which sweater do you prefer
i like the purple one
bob you like marie's clothes more than
mine
no i don't that's not true
then which dress do you prefer
that one this is marie's dress too
what's wrong with my clothes nothing
nothing
i like your clothes i like marie's
clothes
i like everything i like all dresses and
all sweaters
and all skirts and all shoes
[Music]
who asked you anyway
so what are you going to wear to the
party tomorrow night
a t-shirt and jeans a t-shirt and jeans
no way you have to wear something nicer
i don't have anything nicer
you do now all that's for me
what do you think of these
do you have anything looser yep
too wild for me anything else
here you go i don't know
those look pretty warm something cooler
would be good
why don't we look at shirts
not bad but it's
pretty conservative isn't it
i love this one
that doesn't look very comfortable
[Music]
try this
that looks a little cheap do you have
anything more expensive
that's it i'm taking it all back to the
store
but what am i wearing tomorrow just
wear a t-shirt and jeans
so mrs beatty we should talk about your
safari trip to botswana
i'm so excited my first time in africa
you're going to be flying into
johannesburg south africa
would you like a window or an aisle a
window
i want to see everything in johannesburg
you should take a taxi or a limo to your
hotel
the next day you could fly or you could
take a train
to francis town in botswana
is it an express train yes i'll take the
train
i'd like to see the country great then
after you
see francis town you can take a small
plane
or a bus to the okavanga delta
how small is the airplane it's pretty
small
i'll take the bus is it an express bus
i think so when you get to gumare
you're going to be taking a boat to your
hotel
a boat the hotel is on an island
when you get to the island a man with a
donkey
can take your luggage to the hotel a
there are no cars on the island is it an
express donkey
i think it's probably a local donkey
of course if you don't want the donkey
you could take a small
plane it goes straight to the hotel
i think i should take the donkey donkeys
never have mechanical problems
right right
[Music]
so many people do it all over south
africa hello mrs baby
why hello paul where are you traveling
to now
mrs beatty is going on a safari in the
okavanga delta
in botswana nice are you flying in are
you taking the train
bus boat dunky route i'm going to be
taking the donkey
i did that once myself you did was it
very exciting
oh it was on the way there the plane had
mechanical problems
that sounds scary we got in late and i
missed the train to francis town so i
decided to take a bus
but i got on the local bus by mistake
i don't like local buses then the bus
had an accident
so i rented a car but it broke down
oh dear i got to gomari two days late
then i got seasick on the boat to the
island oh my
did you have any problems with the
donkey i got bumped from the dump
you mean they overbooked the donkey no
i mean the donkey bumped me off the road
to the hotel
but it was a very exciting trip you'll
love
africa so any questions mrs beatty
just one how much is a ticket to paris
hey here comes bob
yeah he wants to sell me his digital
camera
hi how was dinner great
what do you have there the best digital
camera
money can buy
paul that's the same camera you
why are you selling it i have two
cheryl gave me another one for my
birthday
it's not bad how much do you want
250 dollars wow that's a great
that's more than i want to pay but
that's less than
i can give you 200 for it no
i need at least 245. sorry
all i have is 210. there's an atm
right
i could go as low as 230 but that's it
sorry thanks anyway
all right i'll sell it to somebody else
what are you doing you almost bought
that camera yesterday for three hundred
dollars
you don't know how to bargain do you
bargain
of course i know how to bargain you
don't know how to bargain
you could buy that camera for 230
dollars but now it's gone
all right you can have it for 225
220 224 221
223 222 not a dollar
more i'm not selling this for less than
223 dollars
here here's one
dollar now you both get what you want
it's a deal i'll get some money from the
atm great
you said
thanks
thanks for dinner my pleasure i saved a
lot of money on the camera
should i leave the tip no
i'll put it on the credit card
five dollars that's not enough
sure it is the bill was fifty dollars
that's only ten percent so
didn't you like the food it was good
was there a problem with the service no
then you need to leave at least 15
percent
no i don't paul we come here all the
time
the waitress gives us great service
because we usually tip well
i always leave ten percent
have a nice evening we're not quite
ready
no problem look
i'm paying tonight so i get to decide
how much to tip
oh all right
hey isn't that mr evans over there
where
never mind it's someone else
shall we go
thank you very much you're welcome
marie this is ms novak she's from
chicago
marie is our receptionist it's nice to
meet you it's nice to meet you too
i'll get your tickets
you look very familiar to me marie have
we met before
i don't think so no well i never forget
a face i'm sure i know you from
somewhere
i don't look familiar to you i'm sorry
no i know
we met in chicago you were a waitress
in a restaurant near the art institute
i've never been to chicago oh
have you ever driven a taxi in egypt no
oh you were the pilot
on a small airplane in china you flew me
over the great wall
no have you ever
gone snorkeling in australia
no driven a bus in peru
ms novak i'm quite sure we've never met
before
i came here only a year ago from paris
paris well my sister katarina lived
there for a year
katharina katarina novak
yes she lived with me
of course you were in all the pictures
she sent home
what a coincidence you see
i never forget a face
i have your tickets oh thank you did you
know that marie knows my sister katarina
really it's a small world isn't it
so are you going sightseeing before you
leave
no i'm going back to the hotel to read
what
you're visiting our great city and
you're not even going to see it
i've come here once a month for eight
years i've seen it all before
i'm sure i can think of something you
haven't seen
i think you're wrong
have you visited the riley museum of art
20 times
have you ever been to the top of the
olsen building just last month
have you eaten at andre's cafe twice
ever been to cold beach yes
seen the city opera yes
toured the japanese gardens yes
you can't have done everything in this
city i'm afraid it's true
have you ever visited the museum of
cheese
there's no museum of cheese
it is really amazing everyone goes there
i can't believe you haven't been there
yet
marie could you call the museum of
cheese and reserve tickets for ms novak
and me
you're not serious i am it's at the
corner of 7th and oak
i'll see you there at 4. okay
i'll see you there thank you goodbye
marie
say hello to katarina for me
goodbye
mr evans is there really a museum of
cheese
at 7th and oak it's a wonderful little
cheese shop
they have every kind of cheese some of
it's very old
so yes i'd say it's a museum of cheese
and this one
this one first the unvoiced sound
no vibration but you have to feel
strong air coming through your mouth
strong air and this one
voiced sound with vibration
but you don't feel the air
coming through your mouth so just
now
okay with strong air
potato potato
pear pear
apple apple you know
pears and apples there are different
kinds of fruits
supermarket supermarket supermarket
is american english for british english
you can pronounce
sioux supermarket supermarket
this one cup cup
now and this one and the
lobe envelope envelope
if you want to send a letter you usually
put your letter into the envelope
so envelope again
potato potato
pear pear
apple supermarket
supermarket cup
cup envelope
envelope
now for remember the voiced
sound with vibration
no strong air ba
so we have book book
this is short ooh so don't say book book
okay this is
a book book
this one borrow borrow
borrow for example if i
don't have any money i want to buy
something
then i i have to ask my friend
and borrow some money from her and
when i have money i will return it back
to her
so that is barrow borrow
this one library
library is british english for american
english
we say library
library library this one
remember remember
cab cab cab
is actually the taxi
this one crab crab
crab is a kind of seafood a lot of
people
ask me that when you look at an english
word
can you know the pronunciation well
usually it's very difficult very hard to
know exactly the pronunciation
but there are some spelling patterns
for you to recognize the pronunciation
rules or
what kind of sound is that but it's not
a hundred percent correct okay just um
maybe 80 or 90 percent correct
okay so these are some patterns for you
but remember not always correct okay
usually for remember this one this is
yourself and we usually if we
write the words if you see the
the letter here j that is just out
okay for example this is job
job right j
job this one project
can you see the j project
project this one
hodge hodge okay
now for d u when d u two can
go together usually they are pronounced
for example adjudication
education education
this one individual
individual individual
can you see 2d here d with i that is
that is d and d u that is
j okay so individual
individual this one
graduate graduate grad remember gra
graduate graduate
ge together we pronounce
for example generation ge
gen generation this one
dangerous danger dangerous
dangerous this one ge
gene gene so again
generation generation dangerous
gene now for
g y sorry g i g
i together we also pronounce this
as j engineer
n g near engineer
this one religion
religion
religion okay we we stress
at the word lee
religion religion this one
ginger can you see gi
and ge here so they pronounce
ginger ginger
okay ginger engineer
religion ginger
okay
and this is
g e at the end okay remember number
three g
e any places at the beginning or
at the middle something like that but
g e here at the end okay like
orange orange every time when you see
g e at the end of the word these
two letters g e would be pronounced j
okay so orange
orange this one knowledge
knowledge this one h
h and
g y at the end we pronounce these two
letters
g g so
energy energy
technology technology
biology biology
biology